# **Web Prime Factorization**

## **Problem description**

The main problem of this project is to **develop a concurrent** and distributed web server that allows its visitors to obtain the **premium factorization of numbers** through a web application.

It works with an existing code base of a serial web server that allows a user-generated query which is managed from start to finish by a single thread, the main thread; this server is the one that must be modified to perform the delivery of queries concurrently, being one or more of a thread in charge of queuing production queries generated by the user.

The purpose of the web application is to be object oriented and to be able to respond with the factorization of positive numbers smaller than 2^63 in a **concurrent** way, so that the application creates as many factorizing threads as available cores in the computer in order to increase the efficiency of the execution of the program.

### **Program features:**

- **Programming language used:** C++.
- **Communication with the user:** via terminal and web browser.
- **Valid values:** Positive numbers less than 2^63 (9223372036854775808).
- **Special values:** 0 and 1.
- **Responds to invalid values:** yes.
- **Way of factoring:** Concurrent.
- **Server concurrency pattern:** Producer-consumer.
- **Application concurrency pattern:** producer-consumer.
- **Web application pattern:** Model-View-Controller (MVC).

### **Requirements:**

- **Receive a list of integers** separated by commas both by URI (browser address bar) and web form.
- Receive a comma-separated list of integers** by both the URI (browser address bar) and the web form.
- **Parallelize the sending of units** (user queries) linked with sockets to the consumption chain, in terms of producer-consumer pattern.
- **Calculate prime factorization** of composite numbers via the web application.
- **Display through the browser interface a list of numbers and their prime factors** Consider the case of being composite, in the other cases it may include an error message for invalid or special values in the order they were entered.
- **Implement the producer-consumer pattern** in the application and in the packer, as well as create the necessary dispatchers for the correct functionality of the program.

---

## User's manual, compilation and execution are available in their folders respectively.

To measure the concurrency of the server, the software tool called 'Httperf' is used, with which certain meters and statistics are available by running a series of tests with connections and requests to the Concurrent Web server. Two concurrency performance tests are performed, firstly it is executed using only one allowed call to simulate a serial state of the server, and a second test with numbers of allowed calls greater than 1.

## **Credits**

**Authors:**

| Name                        | contact                        |
| :---                        | :---                           |
| Zurisadai Granados Montoyo  | <zurisadai.granados@ucr.ac.cr>   |
| Maeva Murcia Melendez       | <valery.murcia@ucr.ac.cr>        |
| Fabián Orozco Chaves        | <fabian.orozcochaves@ucr.ac.cr>  |
| Ariel Solís Monge           | <ariel.solismonge@ucr.ac.cr>     |

Based on existing code: **Network and server**.  

- **Author:** Jeisson Hidalgo
- **Contact:**  <jeisson.hidalgo@ucr.ac.cr>
